docs/configuration.rst, before:

Configuration
=============

General settings
----------------

DBBACKUP_DATABASES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

List of key entries for ``settings.DATABASES`` which shall be used to
connect and create database backups.

Default: ``list(settings.DATABASES.keys())`` (keys of all entries listed)

DBBACKUP_BACKUP_DIRECTORY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Where to store backups. String pointing to django-dbbackup
location module to use when performing a backup.

Default: ``os.getcwd()`` (Current working directory)

DBBACKUP_TMP_DIR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Directory to be used for temporary files.

Default: ``tempfile.gettempdir()``

DBBACKUP_TMP_FILE_MAX_SIZE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Maximum size in bytes for file handling in memory before write a temporary
file on ``DBBACKUP_TMP_DIR``.

Default: ``10*1024*1024``


DBBACKUP_CLEANUP_KEEP and DBBACKUP_CLEANUP_KEEP_MEDIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When issueing ``dbbackup`` and ``mediabackup``, old backup files are
looked for and removed.

Default: ``10`` (days)

DBBACKUP_MEDIA_PATH
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Default: settings.MEDIA_ROOT

DBBACKUP_DATE_FORMAT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Date format to use for naming files. It must contain only alphanumerical
characters, ``'_'``, ``'-'`` or ``'%'``.

Default: ``'%Y-%m-%d-%H%M%S'``

DBBACKUP_FILENAME_TEMPLATE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The template to use when generating the backup filename. By default this is
``'{databasename}-{servername}-{datetime}.{extension}'``. This setting can
also be made a function which takes the following keyword arguments:

::

    def backup_filename(databasename, servername, datetime, extension):
        pass

    DBBACKUP_FILENAME_TEMPLATE = backup_filename

This allows you to modify the entire format of the filename, for example, if
you want to take advantage of Amazon S3's automatic expiry feature, you need
to prefix your backups differently based on when you want them to expire.

``{datetime}`` is rendered with ``DBBACKUP_DATE_FORMAT``.

DBBACKUP_MEDIA_FILENAME_TEMPLATE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Same as ``DBBACKUP_FILENAME_TEMPLATE`` but for media files backups.


DBBACKUP_MYSQL_EXTENSION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The file name extension used for MySQL backups.

Default: ``'mysql'``

DBBACKUP_POSTGRESQL_EXTENSION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The file name extension used for Postgres and PostGIS backups.

Default: ``'psql'``

DBBACKUP_SQLITE_EXTENSION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The file name extension used for SQLite backups.

Default: ``'sqlite'``

DBBACKUP_SEND_EMAIL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Controls whether or not django-dbbackup sends an error email when an uncaught
exception is received.

Default: ``True``

DBBACKUP_HOSTNAME
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Hostname needed by django-dbbackup's uncaught exception email sender for
well described error reporting. If you are using ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` you should
set ``DBBACKUP_HOSTNAME`` to any host from ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` setting. Otherwise
django-dbbackup can not send email to the ``SERVER_EMAIL``.

Default: ``socket.gethostname()``

.. note::

    Previously ``DBBACKUP_FAKE_HOST`` was used for this setting.

**DBBACKUP\_CLEANUP\_KEEP (optional)** - The number of backups to keep
when specifying the --clean flag. Defaults to keeping 10 + the first
backup of each month.

Database-Specific Settings
==========================

These settings can be used to configure backup behaviour on a per-DB basis. 
They should be specified as part of the database configuration dictionary.

DBBACKUP_COMMAND_EXTRA_ARGS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A list of arguments that will be added before the normal arguments when the
database's backup command is invoked.


Database settings
=================

The following databases are supported by this application. You can
customize the commands used for backup and the resulting filenames with
the following settings.

NOTE: The {adminuser} settings below will first check for the variable
ADMINUSER specified on the database, then fall back to USER. This allows
you supplying a different user to perform the admin commands dropdb,
createdb as a different user from the one django uses to connect. If you
need more fine grain control you might consider fully customizing the
admin commands.

Postgresql
----------

DBBACKUP_POSTGRESQL_RESTORE_SINGLE_TRANSACTION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When doing a restore with postgres, wrap everything in a single transaction
so that errors cause a rollback.

Default: ``True``

DBBACKUP_POSTGIS_SPACIAL_REF
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When on Postgis, using this setting currently disables
``CREATE EXTENSION POSTGIS;``. Ideally, it should run the good old Postgis
templates for version 1.5 of Postgis.


Encrypting your backups
=======================

Considering that you might be putting secured data on external servers and
perhaps untrusted servers where it gets forgotten over time, it's always a
good idea to encrypt backups.

Just remember to keep the encryption keys safe, too!


PGP
---

You can encrypt a backup with the ``--encrypt`` option. The backup is done
using gpg.

::

    python manage.py dbbackup --encrypt

...or when restoring from an encrypted backup:

::

    python manage.py dbrestore --decrypt


Requirements:

-  Install the python package python-gnupg:
   ``pip install python-gnupg``.
-  You need gpg key.
-  Set the setting 'DBBACKUP\_GPG\_RECIPIENT' to the name of the gpg
   key.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_ALWAYS\_TRUST (optional)** - The encryption of the
backup file fails if gpg does not trust the public encryption key. The
solution is to set the option 'trust-model' to 'always'. By default this
value is False. Set this to True to enable this option.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_RECIPIENT (optional)** - The name of the key that is
used for encryption. This setting is only used when making a backup with
the ``--encrypt`` or ``--decrypt`` option.

Commit message:

Add ability to tack on extra arguments to the restore command.

docs/configuration.rst, after:

Configuration
=============

General settings
----------------

DBBACKUP_DATABASES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

List of key entries for ``settings.DATABASES`` which shall be used to
connect and create database backups.

Default: ``list(settings.DATABASES.keys())`` (keys of all entries listed)

DBBACKUP_BACKUP_DIRECTORY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Where to store backups. String pointing to django-dbbackup
location module to use when performing a backup.

Default: ``os.getcwd()`` (Current working directory)

DBBACKUP_TMP_DIR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Directory to be used for temporary files.

Default: ``tempfile.gettempdir()``

DBBACKUP_TMP_FILE_MAX_SIZE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Maximum size in bytes for file handling in memory before write a temporary
file on ``DBBACKUP_TMP_DIR``.

Default: ``10*1024*1024``


DBBACKUP_CLEANUP_KEEP and DBBACKUP_CLEANUP_KEEP_MEDIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When issueing ``dbbackup`` and ``mediabackup``, old backup files are
looked for and removed.

Default: ``10`` (days)

DBBACKUP_MEDIA_PATH
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Default: settings.MEDIA_ROOT

DBBACKUP_DATE_FORMAT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Date format to use for naming files. It must contain only alphanumerical
characters, ``'_'``, ``'-'`` or ``'%'``.

Default: ``'%Y-%m-%d-%H%M%S'``

DBBACKUP_FILENAME_TEMPLATE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The template to use when generating the backup filename. By default this is
``'{databasename}-{servername}-{datetime}.{extension}'``. This setting can
also be made a function which takes the following keyword arguments:

::

    def backup_filename(databasename, servername, datetime, extension):
        pass

    DBBACKUP_FILENAME_TEMPLATE = backup_filename

This allows you to modify the entire format of the filename, for example, if
you want to take advantage of Amazon S3's automatic expiry feature, you need
to prefix your backups differently based on when you want them to expire.

``{datetime}`` is rendered with ``DBBACKUP_DATE_FORMAT``.

DBBACKUP_MEDIA_FILENAME_TEMPLATE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Same as ``DBBACKUP_FILENAME_TEMPLATE`` but for media files backups.


DBBACKUP_MYSQL_EXTENSION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The file name extension used for MySQL backups.

Default: ``'mysql'``

DBBACKUP_POSTGRESQL_EXTENSION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The file name extension used for Postgres and PostGIS backups.

Default: ``'psql'``

DBBACKUP_SQLITE_EXTENSION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The file name extension used for SQLite backups.

Default: ``'sqlite'``

DBBACKUP_SEND_EMAIL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Controls whether or not django-dbbackup sends an error email when an uncaught
exception is received.

Default: ``True``

DBBACKUP_HOSTNAME
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Hostname needed by django-dbbackup's uncaught exception email sender for
well described error reporting. If you are using ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` you should
set ``DBBACKUP_HOSTNAME`` to any host from ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` setting. Otherwise
django-dbbackup can not send email to the ``SERVER_EMAIL``.

Default: ``socket.gethostname()``

.. note::

    Previously ``DBBACKUP_FAKE_HOST`` was used for this setting.

**DBBACKUP\_CLEANUP\_KEEP (optional)** - The number of backups to keep
when specifying the --clean flag. Defaults to keeping 10 + the first
backup of each month.

Database-Specific Settings
==========================

These settings can be used to configure backup behaviour on a per-DB basis. 
They should be specified as part of the database configuration dictionary.

DBBACKUP_BACKUP_COMMAND_EXTRA_ARGS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A list of arguments that will be added before the normal arguments when the
database's backup command is invoked.

DBBACKUP_RESTORE_COMMAND_EXTRA_ARGS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A list of arguments that will be added before the normal arguments when the
database's restore command is invoked.


Database settings
=================

The following databases are supported by this application. You can
customize the commands used for backup and the resulting filenames with
the following settings.

NOTE: The {adminuser} settings below will first check for the variable
ADMINUSER specified on the database, then fall back to USER. This allows
you supplying a different user to perform the admin commands dropdb,
createdb as a different user from the one django uses to connect. If you
need more fine grain control you might consider fully customizing the
admin commands.

Postgresql
----------

DBBACKUP_POSTGRESQL_RESTORE_SINGLE_TRANSACTION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When doing a restore with postgres, wrap everything in a single transaction
so that errors cause a rollback.

Default: ``True``

DBBACKUP_POSTGIS_SPACIAL_REF
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When on Postgis, using this setting currently disables
``CREATE EXTENSION POSTGIS;``. Ideally, it should run the good old Postgis
templates for version 1.5 of Postgis.


Encrypting your backups
=======================

Considering that you might be putting secured data on external servers and
perhaps untrusted servers where it gets forgotten over time, it's always a
good idea to encrypt backups.

Just remember to keep the encryption keys safe, too!


PGP
---

You can encrypt a backup with the ``--encrypt`` option. The backup is done
using gpg.

::

    python manage.py dbbackup --encrypt

...or when restoring from an encrypted backup:

::

    python manage.py dbrestore --decrypt


Requirements:

-  Install the python package python-gnupg:
   ``pip install python-gnupg``.
-  You need gpg key.
-  Set the setting 'DBBACKUP\_GPG\_RECIPIENT' to the name of the gpg
   key.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_ALWAYS\_TRUST (optional)** - The encryption of the
backup file fails if gpg does not trust the public encryption key. The
solution is to set the option 'trust-model' to 'always'. By default this
value is False. Set this to True to enable this option.

**DBBACKUP\_GPG\_RECIPIENT (optional)** - The name of the key that is
used for encryption. This setting is only used when making a backup with
the ``--encrypt`` or ``--decrypt`` option.
